Let me ask you something---"How much time have you spent on your resume, applying to jobs you feel qualified for, only to hear nothing back, not even an interview?"
"How many times have you landed an interview, got all dressed up, excited, thought you were going to do well, showed up to the interview but all of your experiences, projects, and accomplishments just didn't roll off your tongue the way you thought they would?"
"How many people in your network do you know that have landed engineering roles at great companies, not because they're technically more qualified than you, but because they probably interviewed and communicated better than you during the hiring process?"
"Does it ever feel like somehow your resume, your application, your experiences, your talents, your skills are just somehow invisible to recruiters and hiring managers and you just can't seem to figure out what the missing puzzle piece is?"---If any of that sounds familiar, you're not the only one.---I've heard this from countless engineers that I've coached, and the really frustrating part for them was -- it typically was not a skills or experience problem.  You have the skills for this.  You got the degree for this.  You've done the really hard part already. The problem is something else.---If I to was define your problem in one concise description, it would be a "Communication Gap".  Engineering school and the first few years of your engineering experience taught you how to be a good engineer, they didn't teach you how to communicate to others how good of an engineer you actually are.  Your resume doesn't actually show people what value you bring to the table.  Your interview examples and answers don't demonstrate your impact and they don't land on your audience the way you think they should.---In all liklihood, your resume reads like a bunch of job responsibilities or job duties you were assigned, it doesn't read like a list of accomplishments worth bragging about.  You're losing out to candidates who are not more capable than you technically, but better at packaging their experiences than you are.  And you're losing out on 6-8 thousand dollars, every month that you keep searching.---I know all of this because I've been on both sides.  When I first started out, I probably applied to 200+ jobs before I landed my dream job with John Deere.  I knew nothing about all the concepts that I coach today and have accumulated over my career. Over 8 years at Deere, I moved around the company a lot, got promoted 4 times, moved from Mechanical Engineering to software and learned so much along that journey. I went from an entry level engineer, to a scrum master on an embedded software team, to a product owner, to an engineering manager, to a high level software strategy leader around AI and efficiency for the company. I also was heavily involved in hiring (for my own team and other teams) as well as recruiting at university events, hiring interns, entry level engineers, mentoring engineers, and coaching across all levels and domains of engineering. ---After all that experience, I realized something very valuable. The best engineers were not always the ones that got hired. However, the best communicators typically did. ---When I finally put all of this together, that's when I really started to accelerate my career, and became super successful in coaching others to reach their career goals as well. I've taken clients from being stuck with no interviews or job offers, to multiple interviews and offers at top tier companies like Deere itself, Google, SpaceX, Ford, GE, and others. This isn't some theory I've been kicking around in my head, this is what I've seen work for myself and what has worked for others repeatedely. ---When you finally close the communication gap on your resume, your interview examples, and your interview performance, things will change. You'll stop sending applications out into the void to die forever without hearing anything back. You'll stop getting nervous about interviews and instead walk in with a confidence that only comes from being well prepared. You'll stop competing on volume, sending out 50+ resumes just to get 1 interview. And eventually the math flips.  Instead of losing $6-8 thousand a month, you start earning that amount. ---Look, if you're having trouble landing a great engineering role, somehow, you are lacking in 1 or all of these 3 key areas: 1 - your resume isn't helping to get your foot in the door for interviews. 2 - you get the interviews, but you aren't able to really communciate your experiences in a way that impresses anyone. 3 - your overall interview performance is not what recruiters and hiring managers are looking for, not giving them the confidence to take the risk of hiring you as an addition to their team, in a time when resources are more scarce than ever. ---The bottom line is: If you fix these 3 key areas, the job offers will come, trust me. ---Full transparency here, i'm not offering you a course. I'm also not offering you some long drawn out coaching that takes place over multiple months just so I can milk you for more money over time. This is why I designed my coaching program the way I did: It's very simple and straightforward. 3 sessions, all 1-on-1, personalized to your experiences and background. 90 minutes each, fully virtual (with recordings and transcripts available), easy to do from any location you want. In Session 1, we rebuild your resume, the bedrock of everything else in the program, and the appetizer you serve to potential employers to get them interested enough to want to sit down and interview you. In Session 2, we do a deep dive and extract your most impactful, value added, meaningful experiences and I'll teach you how to present them in a way that makes interviewers, hiring managers, and recruiters see the value that you bring to the table, and the value you could bring to their team. In Sesesion 3, we put it all together in a full mock interview with extremely detailed feedback.  The best part about session 3 is, I've done this for a living.  I've hired engineers, I've sat on so many interview panels, and I know what real engineering mangers and interviewers are looking for.  And I share all of that with you, to make sure at the end, you know exactly what you need to do to stand out and get that offer, and actually get practice doing it. ---Let me be honest with you for a minute. ---If there was one magic bullet, or if AI could just "give you the perfect resume" or the "perfect interview examples" or tell you what to do exactly, you would have done that by now, and you wouldn't even be here watching this video.  AI can help you organize your thoughts, but it can't go in your head and extract your best experiences for you, and prepare you the way I will. ---Imagine going into your next interview with a resume you're proud to stand next to, locked and loaded with your most impressive interview examples and the confidence that comes with already knowing what a realistic interview looks and feels like, and knowing what the people across the table from you are wanting to see and hear.  It's almost like you have the answers to the exam, before you take the exam.  Wouldn't that be nice? ---Now, quite frankly, I don't guarantee that you will land a job in 21 days, nor could I.  That would be impossible.  And honestly, the career coaches out there who promise results like that are misleading you, becauase there are just too many variables out of my control. ---What I can tell you is that every engineer i've ever coached has walked away with a resume at a completely different level than when we started, and interviews started to roll in like they never have.  They had a master bank of interview exmaples that conveyed their impact and value 10X more clearly and impressively than when we started.  And they had 10X more confidence and knowledge going into their next interview fully equipped with what to expect and what the people on the other side of the table are expecting. ---At the end of the day, there is some work on you, as well.  The system only works, if you work the system.  I will promise you that I come to every session with all the knowledge and enthusiasm in the world, but you have to meet me half way.  If you do, you're going to benefit immensely from this program. ---It's no secret that the job market is not great right now, and it's getting worse.  Entry level jobs are shrinking, and things are getting more competitive.  This means the more you delay getting that next role, the worse your situation might get. ---Now, if you prefer to keep doing what you're doing, applying on your own, trying to figure these things out through trial and error, hey, that's completely your call and I totally respect that. But, if you've been spinning your wheels for a while, feeling stuck, or you just really want to skip ahead and benefit from all my experience boiled down, this program was built for you. ---I also understand that there is never a perfect time to do anything.  But just do a little bit of basic math, you don't really need to take my word for it, or need any complex convincing or mental gymnastics from my end.  The average lost salary per month in engineering is around $7K.  The cost of this program is a drop in the bucket compared to what you are losing every month by waiting.  It truly is an investment.  An investment that will pay off in your first month of landing that next job many times over.  And think of how that compounds over the next 10-15 years the sooner you get started.  Quite frankly ,it's as no brainer. ---So if this program seems like a fit to you, and you're ready to invest your effort and your money to get over this roadblock and move on with your career, then go ahead and click the button on this page to see if you're a fit, then schedule a 15 minute Zoom call with me.  We'll go over some more detail and work through any other questions you might have so you're completely comfortable moving forward.  See you in the call.