Jan 14, 2026
Launch Path Strategy Session (Ethan Swagger) - Transcript
00:00:00
 
Mansour Manci: Oh, Ethan, can you hear me?
Ethan Swagger: Hi. Yes. How's it going?
Mansour Manci: It's going pretty good. How are you doing?
Ethan Swagger: Oh, super well. Appreciate you having the
Mansour Manci: Oh,
Ethan Swagger: time.
Mansour Manci: no problem. I um yeah, I started this uh engineering career coaching business like a month and a half ago and spent quite a bit of time on the the material and the process and what everything looks like. And so I started reaching out to like friends and people in my network to see hey if you know anybody who could benefit
Ethan Swagger: Awesome.
Mansour Manci: I'm I'm willing to take them through for free just to get my main goal is to get feedback and you know find out how useful it is. We all think we're more useful than we probably are but I think I have something to offer. I've managed to do pretty well for myself and people that I've coached informally the past 10 years or so. So um I reached out to CamL and and here we are.
 
 
00:00:54
 
Ethan Swagger: No, that sounds very nice. Uh, yeah, Kamal and I definitely we we got along very very well back at Come and Go Maverick. So, um, no, it's Yeah, it's very great to meet
Mansour Manci: Okay,
Ethan Swagger: you.
Mansour Manci: cool. So, maybe you could tell me a little bit about your background and kind of uh where you're at in your career, what you're looking for. And my my goal too with this call, you know, is to make sure that I'm somebody who can actually help you with those goals, right? I don't want to just uh I mean,
Ethan Swagger: Mhm.
Mansour Manci: right, this would be free anyways, but when I get to charging people, I don't want to take people's money and not be able to really help them truly with their goals. So, maybe a little bit of your background and what you're looking
Ethan Swagger: Yeah, a little bit of my backgrounds.
Mansour Manci: for.
Ethan Swagger: Uh, it's definitely, you know, going to be information technology. Um, I don't have a degree, but I do have quite a bit of experience.
 
 
00:01:44
 
Ethan Swagger: I started off just building PCs at kind of like a young age around 11 to 13. Um, yeah. Right. And, uh, from there, you know, it's just kind of came to a point that I needed a job that I liked.
Mansour Manci: Same.
Ethan Swagger: Um, I started off at the Geek Squad at at Best Buy back at my hometown in Lincoln, Nebraska. And um from there I was kind of able to grow it a little bit. I moved to De Moine with my girlfriend at the time and I started working at Casey's General Stores as an IT specialist. Um and then after that that that gave me the doorway into come and go. At Come and Go is where there was a very large blossoming opportunity um you very family oriented company and it was amazing how many people wanted to spend time to help you grow and encourage you and would trust you to kind of expand your skill set. So it Iworked with a lot of people at come and go, pretty much as many as I possibly could, and there were definitely some integral individuals in the IT departments that really opened my mind to all the possibilities that were out there.
 
 
00:02:44
 
Ethan Swagger: Um, and so it kind of went from, man, I really know what I'm doing to I have no idea what I'm doing, but I am a hund times the technician that I was when I started. So currently I'm specializing in networking. Uh, you know, that's why Kamal and I got along. um he actually got to meet me when I was very very early and didn't know a lot and I've learned a lot in the last year and a half to about two years that Kamal and Iworked and worked together. So currently studying for the CCNA will be taking that in February here.
Mansour Manci: What is that? What's the CCNA?
Ethan Swagger: Cisco certified network associate. It's a um certification.
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Ethan Swagger: It's something to test out for that Cisco provides and you can there's various ways you can study for it. I chose um some rather large books from one of the Cisco certified enterprise experts. His name is Wendo Odum. He's number 1,624. There's like hundreds of thousands of them now.
 
 
00:03:46
 
Ethan Swagger: But um yeah, he wrote the actual CCNA.
Mansour Manci: Mhm.
Ethan Swagger: It's an actual course 20030. He wrote both volumes for it and it goes into very granular detail on everything from you know about networking from even basic stuff like MAC addresses, subnetting and then you know after that we're talking routers, switches, firewalls, things like that.
Mansour Manci: Okay. And right now, I saw from your um the questions you filled out too on the on the uh Google calendar thing, you're in between jobs right now. And I assume based on everything you told me, you're you're um you're trying to learn land something in IT networking. I guess you put network architect in the in the question there.
Ethan Swagger: Yeah, for a dream job. Yeah, dream job would be network architect. Um, I've got a little ways to go, but I currently am uh interviewing for network engineering positions.
Mansour Manci: Okay. I don't see I I I spent a tiny bit of time in it at one point in my life. So before I went back and finished my engineering degree.
 
 
00:04:48
 
Mansour Manci: So I took a very non-traditional path to get my engineering degree. I took me like 10 calendar years to get my engineering degree. I went on and off to school a bunch of times, quit,
Ethan Swagger: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: got married, had a kid, went back.
Ethan Swagger: Mhm.
Mansour Manci: So, uh, but I worked for McFarland Clinic in Ames. Um, you were in you were in the de you are in the De Moine area, right? So, you're familiar as with I don't know if they have clinics in De Moine, but McFarland Clinic,
Ethan Swagger: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: the system that's in Iowa. I work for the IT department there, but I wasn't really sure. I interesting when Camille sent me your name because um, so most of the IT stuff is certification based. you don't really need to have a four-year degree like once you get past a certain point of experience. Is that how it works or I'm kind of new to the to the IT side of
Ethan Swagger: It can it can um with a lot of AI recruiting recruitment and
 
 
00:05:32
 
Mansour Manci: things?
Ethan Swagger: training um it can actually get a little bit tougher to get your foot in the door without a four-year degree. It's not actually necessarily a hard prerequisite.
Mansour Manci: Mhm.
Ethan Swagger: There's a lot of corporations that are looking for somebody that is a lot more just they're looking for the right aptitude as well as back, you know, backed by that experience as well. Just kind of depends where you're going.
Mansour Manci: Okay. And what would you say like if you were to highlight so you've been looking now for um how long have you been have you been out of a job or unemployed looking for
Ethan Swagger: I've been unemployed a little under a
Mansour Manci: something?
Ethan Swagger: month.
Mansour Manci: Okay. So, not too terribly long. Is there anything you would point to that's like a big a big roadblock or issue? like what what's the top one or two things that you think either have been or would be standing in your way with like landing your next role that you really are going
 
 
00:06:29
 
Ethan Swagger: It might be because I'm looking for network engineering.
Mansour Manci: after?
Ethan Swagger: However, if there was a network administration job that popped up, I'd take it. Uh it might be because some of those jobs, you know, they they know what they're looking for. They probably want somebody with a little bit more than just a CCNA, the next step, the CCNP. Um and a lot of times, not all jobs. I see some that don't even really, you know, they just say bachelor's or equivalent, which is awesome. Um, and so on top of that certification, maybe they'd want u at least an associates or a bachelor's in some sort of IT field. Some even specify they really want IT networking. Um, so those are a couple things there that it could be schooling. Um,
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Ethan Swagger: but otherwise, I mean, I actually have been offered positions for different jobs, but they weren't, you know, exactly um optimal for what I was looking for. You know, they might make you a little bit more hands-on than you might want to be.
 
 
00:07:21
 
Ethan Swagger: at least where I'm at in my career because I was I was moving um from help desk to engineering rather quickly. It was just really a matter of was there space for me in the middle of that acquisition? No,
Mansour Manci: Mhm.
Ethan Swagger: there was no space on the de mo side. They were closing everything up.
Mansour Manci: Okay. In terms of like how would you self assess like communication skills?
Ethan Swagger: But
Mansour Manci: I mean, just from this 10-minute conversation so far, you seem pretty confident in a communication. I mean, a lot of engineers that I sit and talk to, it comes out right away that communication probably is not their strong point. But you seem you seem pretty well spoken and pretty pretty good on the communication front. You think that's a fair representation
Ethan Swagger: Thank you. I appreciate you saying so.
Mansour Manci: overall?
Ethan Swagger: Um, communication was huge for us, especially um, we worked on a small help desk at the time and I think why it was such an awesome opportunity is because how much we handled.
 
 
00:08:10
 
Ethan Swagger: Um, and communication was huge, you know, very very large customer service uh, and I have a lot of experience there maybe seven, eight years now, but customer serviceoriented. We're talking to people over the phones all day. Sometimes we're handling fires essentially, you know, really stressful situations for people. Um, you know, they would actually be team members out there in the stores, you know, whether they're a general manager or just an associate. And we would be have to we would have to help them sometimes actually get into the network rack in the back room and deal with whatever it was, whatever whether it was a small computer that hosted the point of sales server or if it was network hardware, power issue, you know, sometimes we'd look at breakers, uh, fuel related. We did I did I specialized mostly in point of sale the first two years. Last year and a half was network administration. Um, so yeah, communication was a huge emphasis and I'd have to thank my team lead and manager for that. His name was Adam Hulcom.
 
 
00:09:04
 
Ethan Swagger: Uh, he was a fantastic communicator and I learned a lot from him there. So I'd say it's strong. I think I've got medium to strong communication
Mansour Manci: Okay, that sounds pretty good.
Ethan Swagger: skills.
Mansour Manci: So, I think I mean I don't need to really go into like super super more detail beyond this. I mean, I guess I'll tell you where I'm at and then you tell me um you know, what you think of of what I'm uh what I'm laying out and we can take it from there. But basically, I mean, I don't see I was kind of a little bit hesitant at first to see like it's you're kind of in the IT world. I don't know much about that. the fact that you're going for like a a networking engineer or something. I feel like um I could probably add some value there and help you and um my goal really is for it to be pretty mutual. So, I hope to add as much value as I can to your search for your job, but then also um to get feedback.
 
 
00:09:57
 
Mansour Manci: It's just as important for me to get feedback from people on, hey, part of my program is adding a ton of value, what's not, what should I tweak, is there like an order difference and things, stuff like that. Um, I've got four people going through it right now. And I think also having somebody with a a more diverse background like yours would help me too kind of like test out the robustness, right? And kind of understand like how applicable is this maybe in somewhere that isn't like my traditional breadandbut engineering uh audience, right, or avatar that I'm kind of looking at serving and how would that go? So, I'll give you kind of just a little bit of an overview. Hopefully you can share my see my screen um at a decent size but basically I right now I'm doing three sessions each one is 90 minutes and the first session's focus is on resume. So, I talk a lot too about what makes what makes experiences, how do I put this? What what makes a good experience to put on your resume and make your resume stand out, right?
 
 
00:10:55
 
Mansour Manci: I know there's a lot of resume builders out there. AI is helpful nowadays, but what I'm really getting at here, because also this path is really geared towards younger engineers, maybe junior seniors in college or like just out of school. So, it could be a little bit um maybe a little bit basic for where you're at in your career, but I do still see people like in my experience at John Deere who are applying for staff engineer staff engineer level positions who still don't really know how to really extract things from their experiences and make them shine in a resume type of situation where you've got a very limited amount of time for somebody to review your resume and look at your experiences. So this is a lot more how do I dig back into my experiences and understand how to present them in a way that would catch someone's attention and want them to spark a another conversation i.e. an interview with me, right? That would be the focus of the first session. And before every session, after each session, there'll be material that I've prepared.
 
 
00:11:50
 
Mansour Manci: Um, and I spent a lot of time kind of going through what's worked in my career, my experience. So, everything, even though there's a lot of it that might, you know, AI helped me to write some of the documents, but everything is from my own brain dump and from my own personal experiences and content that I've documented
Ethan Swagger: Can
Mansour Manci: myself. But that's the first session. 90 minutes spent really on resume concepts, how to extract your experiences and and present them in a way that would be attractive to somebody who wants to hire you. The second 90-minute session is mostly interview strategy and story mastery. So I focus on the behavioral based interviews. I assume with it there's probably some technical interview as well. I don't focus on any of the technical interview preparation for the most part because I feel like there's pretty good tools out there and free resources on at least where I'm most of my bread and butter is in the engineering area. There's plenty of resources out there of like how to answer a technical interview question, things like that.
 
 
00:12:45
 
Mansour Manci: So I I can't possibly right in any any number of sessions really do that justice and I leave that to those resources. But I focus on the behavioral based interviews. And I'm assuming at least in the IT world that there's still by and large quite a bit of behavioral based interviews or like job fit type interviews that happen with IT just like engineering. Um would be my assumption. Maybe maybe you could correct that assumption if it's if it's not correct.
Ethan Swagger: you ask that question one more
Mansour Manci: I I'm assuming that within the IT world as well in the career uh career path there like there's a lot
Ethan Swagger: time?
Mansour Manci: of behavioral based interviews just like engineering right even in most engineering circumstances where like at a Google or a SpaceX or a Microsoft right there's typically some kind of technical interview but there's always some kind of behavioral
Ethan Swagger: Yes,
Mansour Manci: based interview right I'm assuming that's similar in the IT
Ethan Swagger: absolutely. Um,
Mansour Manci: world.
Ethan Swagger: same concept, same engine engineering.
 
 
00:13:40
 
Ethan Swagger: Uh, a lot of what we're doing is just going to be over computers, but those exact same things
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Ethan Swagger: apply.
Mansour Manci: So then I think this would still have a lot of value. So the second session is focused on crafting those stories and those examples to use in the behavioral based interviews to really make them stand out um in a way that's like very well prepared. going into how to extract those stories, what type of layerings to add on to them, what kind of details people want to see to make them better examples. Um, dealing with follow-up questions, you know, so basically getting prepared for a behavioral based interview with your examples. A lot of them will be stuff that's on your resume, but we can go into more detail than the resume is kind of like the the the appetizer,
Ethan Swagger: All
Mansour Manci: right, for for all these different experiences that people have had. So, that's the main focus of session two. Then there's more material between session two and three, just some resources, information.
 
 
00:14:32
 
Mansour Manci: And then session three is a 90 minute mainly focused on a live mock interview. So that'll be at least an hour of that 90 minutes of being in a mock interview asking behavioral based questions, answering them, and then I'll stop after each answer, give detailed feedback, how I think you could improve, how you could better answer the question, the competency, how you could craft your story better to to score higher on that interview. So those are the three sessions that I'm offering, 90 minutes each right now. And maybe I didn't go into some detail about myself in the beginning, but everything I put into this this kind of course, this program is what I've experienced the past eight years, nine years in engineering, eight years at John Deere that I've been there. Um I've had a couple promotions since I've been there. And all these things are things that I've personally used, I've coached others to use that they've had success with. So, I'm not saying this is, you know, the only way or that everything I teach here is like going to work 100% of the time every
 
 
00:15:29
 
Ethan Swagger: right.
Mansour Manci: time, obviously, right? This is real life. But I'm sharing what's what's helped me been promoted quite a few times in the past um seven, eight years at Deer and helped others do the same. So, that's kind of my program. I feel like u from what I've heard from your background, it it would it would be a good fit. I think you have a lot of the the skills and similar type of structure for the jobs you're looking for to benefit from the program and um so more than willing to more than happy to take you on again for for no cost really just looking for some really in-depth feedback as we go through the program and at the end of the program. Um what what are your
Ethan Swagger: That sounds great.
Mansour Manci: thoughts?
Ethan Swagger: Yeah, you know, I really like opportunities to help others and, you know, if you're willing to let me kind of pick your brain and pick mine, I I think we could really build something cool for you there.
 
 
00:16:23
 
Ethan Swagger: So,
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Ethan Swagger: awesome.
Mansour Manci: What um I typically right now I'm trying to target when people start to do like one session a week. I think going longer than that kind of is too big of a lull in between. I think it'll Sorry, let me hit the cough button for one sec. I think it helps keep me accountable, helps keep you accountable. Like if we go like two weeks in between sessions, right? It's kind of like uh what did we talk about last time? So, I try to do one session every week and we 21 days or 3 weeks we knock it out.
Ethan Swagger: Right.
Mansour Manci: So, if that sounds like something you're interested in,
Ethan Swagger: Sure.
Mansour Manci: right now I I still work during the day, my day job. So, most of them are going to be in the evenings, but um if you're interested and you you want to start or you want to give more time and think about it, you can get back to me. But, um I can send you some times for next week that would work if you wanted to get started or if you wanted to delay one more week after that.
 
 
00:17:15
 
Mansour Manci: It's kind of up to you. I have the availability either
Ethan Swagger: Well, luckily you caught me when I have time. So,
Mansour Manci: way.
Ethan Swagger: if we're really just doing a trial course here and there's no intention to have me pay for anything, um I'd be happy to help and I have I've got time for
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Ethan Swagger: you.
Mansour Manci: How is um Tuesday evening next week?
Ethan Swagger: Sounds great. Yeah, if you wanted to shoot me an invite, I'll add that to my calendar and uh I'll keep an eye out for
Mansour Manci: Okay. Let me uh let me write this down.
Ethan Swagger: it.
Mansour Manci: Tuesday the 20th. Central Standard Time. Uh, it's just a habit. You're in De Moine. We're in the same time zone. I'm I'm over in the Quad Cities area, so we're not too far apart.
Ethan Swagger: Oh, really? Awesome.
Mansour Manci: Yeah.
Ethan Swagger: How is it out
Mansour Manci: Uh, it's not too bad. I was in Water.
 
 
00:18:00
 
Ethan Swagger: there?
Mansour Manci: So, I grew up in Ames most of my life and um I left Ames eight years ago. I spent five years up in the in Waterlue when I first came to Deer. And then I've been in the Quad Cities area for the past couple years. It's I don't know if Are you familiar with Waterl area at all?
Ethan Swagger: I haven't spent any time out there. Um,
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Ethan Swagger: but I definitely heard of it.
Mansour Manci: It's I mean Quad Cities is it's like a smaller version of De Moines.
Ethan Swagger: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: It's it's really kind of it's kind of similar. Just the only thing that makes a little bit weird is the whole Illinois Iowa split with the river in between. It can make it weird to like find a house at a price that you want. It can make it weird to like get places because you think like, man, I'm not too far from that thing, but you got to like go all the way over to the bridge to cross the river and like sometimes you could be like, you know, you're just trying to get right across the river and it takes you 45 minutes and if you were like 20 minutes away,
 
 
00:18:51
 
Ethan Swagger: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: it only take you like 25 minutes because you're like on I 80 and you can cross the bridge. And so it was weird to get used to, but lifestyle-wise, it's it's kind of like a small De Moines. It's not that not that different.
Ethan Swagger: Gotcha. No, that's that's very cool. I was just looking at some pictures. Yeah, it looks pretty neat. Um we don't have to deal with the river too much in De Moines. You know, there's like the one
Mansour Manci: Yeah. Yeah. It's It's not too bad.
Ethan Swagger: bridge.
Mansour Manci: But I tell everybody though, I'm I'm such an incredibly boring person. It's like if as long as there's a Sam's Club or a Costco and a Walmart where I'm moving, like it's good enough for me.
Ethan Swagger: You're good.
Mansour Manci: I'm a Yeah.
Ethan Swagger: You got your staples.
Mansour Manci: My night life is consists of like going to Costco or like walking around Bernard's looking for random crap that I probably don't need to buy, but I buy anyways.
 
 
00:19:43
 
Ethan Swagger: Oh god.
Mansour Manci: So, okay. I'll I'll get the calendar invite sent to you. Oh, I guess the last thing too to mention um you know, part of getting people's feedback, I guess the other purpose too is to get you know, at the end of all this, if you feel like it's warranted to get like a testimonial, right? I'm also trying to use this as an opportunity if people feel like it was valuable to be able to help like put some stuff on my website that you know shows others that hey this was valuable right for somebody else but would you be okay with that? Are you comfortable with that? I mean, do you have a camera like when we do the sessions, can you have a a camera on and would you be comfortable you for me using any of that content like to to to use it for example in like a like a quick Tik Tok video or something or do you have any hesitation about that kind of stuff?
Ethan Swagger: It sounds fine to me.
Mansour Manci: Okay. Okay.
 
 
Transcription ended after 00:21:03

This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created.
