Jan 3, 2026
Launch Path Strategy Session (Osaid Samman) - Transcript
00:00:00
 
Mansour Manci: Halak. Alhamdulillah. How is everything? How have you been?
Osaid Samman: Alhamdulillah. What about
Mansour Manci: Not too bad, man. Alhamdulillah. Pretty good. It's been uh my god,
Osaid Samman: you?
Mansour Manci: it's been like what? At least over 10 years, I think, since I've seen you. Last time I saw you, you were like running around the masjid like I don't know.
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: It's been a while, man. What What year did your You left the US with your parents and came back for college, right?
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: What What year did you guys leave?
Osaid Samman: 2019 I believe.
Mansour Manci: 19. Okay. That's right after I left Ames. Yeah, I left Ames in 2018 for a job and uh Yeah.
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: So, man, time is flying, huh?
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: Uh okay. Um let's uh let's uh dig into it here a little bit inshallah. So just to start you know I thanks for getting back to me and um what I want to what I want to kind of what I'm offering right now is um you know the past eight years I've helped a lot of people coached a lot of people.
 
 
00:01:14
 
Mansour Manci: I've done pretty well myself and I'm trying to put together a program really to help people um different stages of their career. Right? This is obviously from the beginning stage.
Osaid Samman: Mhm.
Mansour Manci: So, my big thing really, I'll show you kind of the the blueprint, the plan and stuff. I have some questions to kind of go over first a little bit to get an idea of where things are at, what you're you know, where you're at specifically. Um, but the overall purpose, inshallah, if you if you decide to continue, is really for me to help you as much as I can and for you to help me as much as you can in terms of feedback. So, I really the people I'm offering to go through this for free is just all I want is feedback. So at the end if we go through and if if if your feedback is like oh it was good that's not good
Osaid Samman: Okay.
Mansour Manci: enough.
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: I need like some some specific things that and if it was not good and there's
 
 
00:01:59
 
Osaid Samman: No, I'll try to give you some details. Yeah.
Mansour Manci: definitely the negative feedback to me is more important than the positive. So um that's all I'm looking for really for the most part and the issue you messaged me about it's not a big deal. we can just uh bypass that and just if you feel like it's worth it at the end uh a written written recommendation is good enough inshallah but mainly for me to know to know the process like was it did
Osaid Samman: Nice and
Mansour Manci: it feel like it made sense you know there's three sessions at the end we'll figure out does that feel like it's not enough is
Osaid Samman: trouble.
Mansour Manci: it too much is the content redundant you know all these different things so um okay that's me the programshallah but um how about you so I looked at your LinkedIn profile a little I didn't see like a full resume posted there, but from what I know from your background, you finished computer engineering in May 2025. You've been looking for meaningful full-time work since then.
 
 
00:02:53
 
Mansour Manci: Um, I saw a fellowship for a couple of months. So, I was going to ask you about that. Um, and then your freelance work. So, maybe you you want to start a little bit if you want about how things have gone since you graduated and those two positions, what you've been up to.
Osaid Samman: Yeah. I mean, now I've been I'm just unemployed.
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: I'm looking for a work.
Mansour Manci: How's the the freelance stuff going for the freelance?
Osaid Samman: Is that what?
Mansour Manci: You have like some freelance
Osaid Samman: Oh, that's Yeah,
Mansour Manci: experience.
Osaid Samman: that's in progress. I'm working with the clients for building them a website should be up by June.
Mansour Manci: Okay. And that's through like Fiverr or through
Osaid Samman: So, no, through just personal connection.
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: Okay. Okay. Um, just to get a little bit too a little bit of taste of kind of where you're coming from, like what what what made you choose software computer engineering specifically and what what do you enjoy about it?
 
 
00:03:57
 
Mansour Manci: What do you like about it? And maybe talk a little bit about your school experience like what is your favorite project? What's your favorite class? What do you enjoy about it the most? Like what do you what are you in it for?
Osaid Samman: Well, computers in general, I chose it because that's what I was interested in. I started I used to make uh video games before I went to college. So, I was like,
Mansour Manci: I played I played one of your games this morning a little bit.
Osaid Samman: "Okay, computers is what it's going to be." You did?
Mansour Manci: The one that you you put on LinkedIn. Uh the first person
Osaid Samman: Which one?
Mansour Manci: shooter.
Osaid Samman: Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, I did that and I was like, "Okay, computer is probably the way to go." So,
Mansour Manci: Yeah.
Osaid Samman: then I went with computer.
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: And then as far as coursework, what would you say is your favorite course or project and and why?
 
 
00:04:47
 
Osaid Samman: I like uh the a lot of classes they have like a lot of different things with ones that are just like project based specifically.
Mansour Manci: So you enjoy the project based funds more.
Osaid Samman: So yeah project based like for example there was a class 309 which is software development practices we built an Android app with it.
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: So I enjoyed that one and also working with people as well.
Mansour Manci: On the group projects like me in that group team setting.
Osaid Samman: Yeah, like group projects.
Mansour Manci: Okay. Okay.
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: Okay. The next kind of thing I want to focus in on a little bit is like roadblocks issues. Like what what do you personally feel like has been the thing that's stopping you from getting a job? Like if you were to point out the one or two big things you feel like, oh man, this is my biggest gap, my biggest issue. This is the reason like as I think why I'm not getting call backs, why I'm not landing something.
 
 
00:05:48
 
Mansour Manci: What would you self diagnose as the issues?
Osaid Samman: I'd say lack of experience. They always ask for like years experience, which I don't know how I'm supposed to get
Mansour Manci: Well, let's say forget about lack of experience, right? because everybody has lack of experience in your position or has similar experience.
Osaid Samman: that.
Mansour Manci: U maybe they might have an internship or two but let's say aside from that in terms of just your application like you feel like your resume is not getting any attention. Do you feel like uh you know your communication skills are not very good? You know have you ever got an interview and you didn't do well in the interview besides experience? What what things do you think would be your weak points?
Osaid Samman: Sometimes I communicate more
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: effectively.
Mansour Manci: In what way?
Osaid Samman: Uh sometimes I need time to think. So maybe be faster,
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: more responsive,
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: quicker.
Mansour Manci: That can come with practice too a lot, you know.
 
 
00:06:48
 
Mansour Manci: Um I don't know if since you graduated or before graduation you ever had did you ever have any interview
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: for any full-time position ever?
Osaid Samman: Oh,
Mansour Manci: Okay. So I think that's you know that's one of the things even even till today you know I post stuff on Tik Tok I
Osaid Samman: yeah.
Mansour Manci: post stuff on LinkedIn for this business and I get DMs from people saying like oh man all this stuff you're telling people to prepare for the interviews is BS man you just people just need to come to the interview if you did the work that means you did the work all this is kind of like BS you know prep and I've interviewed so many people at John Deere for jobs and I've interviewed myself career fairs recruiting events I'm telling preparing for the interview practicing. It's a skill. It's a thing you can build. It's like someone says, "You don't need to prepare to bench press 300 lb." Like, you know, as long as you know you can do it and you think you It's like, "No, dude. I'm sorry,
 
 
00:07:42
 
Mansour Manci: but if you've never bench pressed anything, you're not going to bench press 300 lb. I don't care who you are." You know, like you got to start with 45, then you got to go up to 50. So, that's something. And the reason I'm asking these questions, right, is not just to like put salt on a wound. is like to figure out can I help you? Where can I most effectively help you? Right? And then this is a common thing I think that a lot of people like I saw your projects from LinkedIn. You have cool projects. I'm sure there's even more stuff we can dig into and pull out. But some people think well I have the cool experience. I have the projects. They should just like know that in the interview. And interviewing itself is a skill. It is something you have to build and work on that you know being able to show how good of a candidate you are is a skill in of itself.
 
 
00:08:27
 
Mansour Manci: People can't just tell because you are a good candidate. So that's kind of uh something we'll dig into more and I think it'll become more apparent at least after the first couple of sessions inshallah. Um any GPA concerns when you graduated?
Osaid Samman: Okay.
Mansour Manci: Did you have like a low GPA or what was your GPA?
Osaid Samman: I had a three 3.33.
Mansour Manci: Okay. Yeah,
Osaid Samman: I believe that's good enough.
Mansour Manci: it's above the cut off for most companies. I think like John Deere is 2.9 maybe or three something like that. So I don't think I don't think it should hurt you in any major way.
Osaid Samman: I should find that.
Mansour Manci: Okay. So communication um lack of
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: experience. Anything else coming to mind? Like uh you're open to relocation. You're open to you're pretty open for in terms of your list of demands is is not very long. Okay.
Osaid Samman: don't have many demands.
Mansour Manci: You're in the US still.
 
 
00:09:26
 
Mansour Manci: You're you're still in the US.
Osaid Samman: Uh I'm based in US on vacation.
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: So I'm with my parents there of
Mansour Manci: But you're based in in as Okay.
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: Okay. Okay. I also noticed um at least from the survey in this meeting notice your dream role is a remote something remote hybrid computer engineering role network engineer IT
Osaid Samman: Mhm.
Mansour Manci: software engineer infrastructure I saw some of your certifications too on LinkedIn kind of line up with that um do you have any kind of like dream company um anything
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: uh I know right now it might feel like I just want anything I'll accept any job offer I've I've in there myself,
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: but let's let's dream a little bit. Do you have any kind of dream company or or something more specific in your mind?
Osaid Samman: Uh, guess maybe Cisco. Cisco is a good pretty good
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: company.
Mansour Manci: Okay. Okay. And from all those things you listed, software application development, is that uh higher on the list of like the stuff you had listed on LinkedIn.
 
 
00:10:45
 
Mansour Manci: Is that in order of like what you'd be interested in? If you could take any role, app development, is that number one? Is it security? Like what's what's the highest on the list?
Osaid Samman: I guess highest on the list what I want to do is
Mansour Manci: Okay.
Osaid Samman: infrastructure.
Mansour Manci: Okay. Did you have any involvement on campus when you were a student? Any clubs, organizations besides just uh like being a member? Like did you have any leadership position in any clubs, organizations or have like a a bigger influence on a club or organization?
Osaid Samman: I did but it's not completely relevant to
Mansour Manci: What club was it?
Osaid Samman: that forum student association.
Mansour Manci: Okay. what was your position?
Osaid Samman: So I was
Mansour Manci: Okay, that's actually very very relevant.
Osaid Samman: secretary.
Mansour Manci: So I was president of the MSA when I was on campus. I used that some examples from there quite a bit. So you have to remember at your experience level, right?
 
 
00:11:42
 
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: Like leadership experience in something that isn't engineering related is better than no experience in something engineering related, right? So we we could dig into that.
Osaid Samman: Okay. Usually for leadership, I I usually talk about my senior design because my group nominated me like,
Mansour Manci: Sure.
Osaid Samman: "Okay, you're a team leader." So So I usually talk about
Mansour Manci: That's that's good. That's good to have. But think about it this way too.
Osaid Samman: that.
Mansour Manci: Like senior design. Everyone took senior design. Not everybody was a secretary of a student organization,
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: right?
Osaid Samman: I see what you're doing,
Mansour Manci: So it's like you have the what was assigned and now this is like oh I went above and beyond.
Osaid Samman: right?
Mansour Manci: This is you had to volunteer and take a time out of your life, right? So this is in some ways that is more relevant to some questions but in some ways this is way more better and way more relevant because it's something you chose to do above and beyond what you were asked to do in a class right so we'll dig into that more inshallah in the first couple sessions
 
 
00:12:39
 
Osaid Samman: Okay.
Mansour Manci: um let me see hopefully you have I'm sure at this point you've been applying a lot you have some kind of resume that you can bring to the first session and then we can start start picking it apart a little
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: bit and talking about it Um, so I think really the last question is if you have any questions for me, anything else you feel like you need to share, otherwise we can pick a date. Um, do you want to wait till you come back? I don't know when you're coming back from vacation, but uh, any idea when you're free to start, when you want to get started on
Osaid Samman: Is it uh in person or online?
Mansour Manci: virtual?
Osaid Samman: Oh, virtual then virtual I can do uh yeah next
Mansour Manci: Next week. Okay. Um,
Osaid Samman: week.
Mansour Manci: so the time difference what you're plus eight hours I think, right?
Osaid Samman: Yeah. So your morning is e is uh evening here.
Mansour Manci: Okay. Plus eight.
Osaid Samman: So now now it's mative
 
 
00:13:36
 
Mansour Manci: Okay. Do you want to do same time as this?
Osaid Samman: time.
Mansour Manci: Like let's say we could start Monday.
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: Okay. So let's say Monday. That's going to be what? The 5th.
Osaid Samman: Okay.
Mansour Manci: Yeah. 15 9:00 a.m. Central Standard Time. Okay. So, I'll send you you'll get an email basically a summary of this call, bunch of notes from what we talked about here today. Um, and then you'll get another email which will have a bunch of information about the first session. There'll be some um some material for you to review a little bit.
Osaid Samman: Okay.
Mansour Manci: Um, the main important thing really will be there'll be a couple of little homework assignments in there. Nothing huge, but just to get you to start thinking about some of these things and basically just bring your resume and a few of the things I mentioned in the email to the first session on Monday. We'll start pulling apoint some bullet points and I have some kind of fundamental concepts I think to go over that just to change the mindset a little bit, get you in the right like um headsp space and way of thinking about some of these things that aren't necessarily intuitive all the time but can be very uh very useful.
 
 
00:14:45
 
Mansour Manci: So here is overall just to give you just a quick kind of glimpse.
Osaid Samman: Okay. No problem.
Mansour Manci: Um so I'll send you some presession material basically to everything that we talk about all the sessions. Um I'm going to have transcripts. I'm going to record them again on your request. I won't use anything publicly but you'll have access to the recording so that if you want to come back to it, you want to look at the transcript, whatever, you're free to do that whenever it'll be on a Google Drive. um and all these resources that you know the the slides we're going to go through a lot of the notes I'm going to take it's all going
Osaid Samman: Okay.
Mansour Manci: to be available to you so at least in the email too you'll get a bunch of this prematerial some of it is just useful info some of our worksheets it'll be links the PDFs you can download um the first session will mainly be the resume transformation we'll go into a lot of working on the resume um the second session will be we'll try to pick out more stories from your experience and get really really top stories for interviews like mostly for star interviews, right?
 
 
00:15:45
 
Mansour Manci: I don't do any prep for technical interviews. I think there's plenty of content online about programming interviews and coding interviews. Like I'm not going to try to rebuild that whole entire system, but we can get good leadership examples and things for STAR interviews. That'll be the focus of the second session. The third session, uh the main focus is going to be a full live interview. So, we'll do a mock interview and I've done a ton of these in the past eight years. I'll give you more detailed feedback probably than you ever dreamed to get in your life. And hopefully by the end of this, inshallah, you'll be um much much much better candidate for any interviews, be able to land interviews more often, but then be able to get some offers inshallah as well. Um so all that this um bunch of information coming at you now in the emails that I'm going to send out by the end of the day today probably. And one more thing too, you'll have a link in the email um to a school.com community.
 
 
00:16:39
 
Mansour Manci: I don't know if you're familiar with school.com at all, but it's kind of like a fa a Facebook group or having a WhatsApp group, but it gives me a little more control over posting content. So, right now we've got like 14 15 people in there and the idea is it's completely free, but I'm trying to build that up so that over time people can um you know get together with people who have the same goal of finding a job as them. So, you might get to a point where you have certain questions. Oh, you know, I have an interview coming up. It's with this company. I've got certain questions about how they're going to do this or hey, I want to find a partner to do some mock interviews, right? It's just instead of just like asking your contacts in your network, it's a group that you know, everyone there is in your position as a young engineer trying to find a job. So, there's motivation to help each other. I post a lot of free content there.
 
 
00:17:26
 
Mansour Manci: It's free. You don't lose anything. there's no like advertisements or scammy BS like you know it's a very controlled environment by me by by me so there'll be a link to that and um I think we'll make some good progress inshallah with these sessions so any final questions or thoughts or anything okay I'll be sending you that I'll send you that stuff
Osaid Samman: Not currently
Mansour Manci: inshallah by the end of the day hopefully today and um sayum to your father I
Osaid Samman: know.
Mansour Manci: really tell him I miss him And uh that uh it's amazing to see you now after the last time I saw you a little kid and I wish him all the best inshallah.
Osaid Samman: Yeah.
Mansour Manci: Your whole family say to everyone and your younger brother too is he's he still studying or is he
Osaid Samman: Yeah,
Mansour Manci: okay and what's he
Osaid Samman: he'll graduate uh after next semester.
Mansour Manci: studying?
Osaid Samman: So, it's going to be computer
Mansour Manci: Does he did he have any internships or job offers?
Osaid Samman: engineering.
Mansour Manci: Okay. Tell him to reach out if he wants to. I'll I'm happy to work with him a little bit too if he wants to.
Osaid Samman: Okay. Are we here?
 
 
Transcription ended after 00:18:46

This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created.
