Some background (from Mansour):

On Jonah Brehm (brehmjonah@gmail.com):
I coached Jonah when he was an entry level engineer at John Deere, and he landed a job as a Software Test Engineer within John Deere after my mentorship.  He did an amazing pivot from Mechanical to Software with my coaching.

On Mohamed Ibrahim (hamada201267@gmail.co):
I coached Mohamed a lot over the years.  He started as an entry level contract engineer at John Deere, and with my coaching he landed a permanent salaried enginering entry level role.  Then he was able to pivot from mechanical CI to a software role within the company.  I helped him a lot with interview preperation and learning new software skills to become competitive in the corporate landscape.

On Cole Hunzeker (chunzeker24@gmail.com):
Cole is a coworker at John Deere.  He came to me seeking advice on how to get promoted.  He felt like he got passed up for promotion already a couple of times when he was very qualified for a promotion.  We worked on a lot of things together using my Accelerate strategies.  We also did a lot of interview prep.  He is not well equipped to pounce on the next promotion opportunity that comes his way.

On Chiebuka Onyejesi (chiebukaonyejesi@gmail.com):
Chiebuka, or Ebuka for short, was an Intern at Deere that I coached.  He came in not knowing a lot about networking and doing the right things to get his name and reputation elevated and positioned to get a return offer to come back to Deere full time.  We covered a lot of ground from my Launch framework, and he worked hard to implement a lot of the concepts there.  He is back in school now and graduating soon.  He has a lot of good tools now and is positioned well to get a great job when he graduates.

Murilo Baptistella (mucabap@gmail.com):
Murilo is a senior engineer at John Deere that I coached.  He was struggling with positioning himself to get a promotion, also to position himself to get deeper into a more software technical role.  He had a lot of technical knowledge, and a ton of drive.  What he was lacking was building his visibility, which I coached him through.  Also, buildling the right relationships that would pay off in 6-12 months.  After our coaching he was also able to get his manager to give him a technician who would work under him and Murilo would give him work direction.  I gave him this great strategy as part of the Trojan Horse strategy, he now has a change to prove he can manage someone even without getting a promotion to be a manager on paper. Murilo is very well positioned to pounce on the next promotion opportunity when it comes his way.

On Sarah Korssa (sarah.korssa@gmail.com):
Sarah Korssa was an intern that I coached at Deere and we spent many sessions together.  We revamped resume, interview prep, interview skills, etc.  She graduated and was landed a great job as a Process Engineer at Ford Motor Company with the help of my coaching.  Base salay for this role is $93k, with total comp starting around $106k.

On AJ Marsiglio (aj.marsiglio@yahoo.com):
I coached AJ and he managed to go from an entry level engineer to a level 2 in around 18 months from when we started.  He had issues with taking ownership of his situation and he wsa also not put in a place to succeed with the workload he was thrown into.  He managed to become very accountable and productive in a short amount of time.  He also stepped up and took over an entire product line in his role, using the trojan horse method to take on more work, to drive a promotion, instead of waiting for the promotion to take on more responsibility.  He got much better at communication, influencing without authority, leading initiatives, and working his skip level managers to bring forth great ideas that got him good recognition.  He did an amazing turn around in 18 months.  Many colleagues and managers noticed his shift and praised him a lot along the way.  A great turnaround.

On Mukul Kulkarni (lukumkulkarni@gmail.com)
I coached Mukul after we met at the career fair.  He interviewed for a job with Deere and didn't get offered an internship. He reached out to me and wanted feedback, so I gave him some and told him I would meet with him if he wanted to improve his resume, interview exmamples, and interview performance.  We worked together on all 3 of these areas, and soon after he landed his first great engineering role in Texas with top tier company.

On Austin Vaughn:
I helped Austin get unstuck in trying to move from his Senior Engineering role into a Staff Engineer role.  He had applied to 3-5 positions and either didn't get an interview or didn't get an offer.  I helped him recraft his resume to highlight his impact and value in past roles, and helped him prep his interview example storybank for interviews.  We really dug deep and pulled out tons of details and really valuable gold nuggets in his examples.  He laid them out, memorized them, and we practiced them in mock interviews.  I helped him map his examples to competencies making sure he had no gaps.  He performed well in his interviews and finally landed a Staff Engineer position within a few months of us working together.

On Josh C.:
Josh was a recent graduate who was struggling to land his first full time engineering job.  He had a few interviews here and there, but never got that offer. We worked a lot on his resume, his interview storybank and mock interview practice.  We hit all the main points that my new offer doc covers and Josh landed a full time engineering job within 2 weeks of us working together!

On Amir Hassan:
Amir came to me for help because he had some serious imposter syndrome.  As a non traditional student who went back to get his engineering degree later in life he really questioned if he belonged on this path.  He also came to the US as an immigrant and english wasn't even his first language.  He was finishing a very technical degree in electrical engineering in a second language, as a non traditional (age-wise) student and just felt like he didn't have the confidence to really land a top engineering role.  We began working togeether and I could sense it immediately.  We worked on his resume, which was overloaded with every experience he'd ever had in his life.  We cut it down to th emost impactful, relvatnt things to engineering and new opportunities, and made sure the impact and value was gushing out with the IBB frameowrk. We crafter interview examples and matched them up to the competencies to make sure his toolbox was stocked and no quetsion would really throw him off in a behavrioal based interview.  Then we ran a few mock interviews to get comfortable delivering those examples under pressure, timed, with a realy person who's been on many hiring panels listening and providing critical feedback.  Then we went through important post interview strategy like follow up, thank you, and negotiation.  One key thing that really helped Amir was our reviewing not making any dealbreakers before the offer is extended, something he was doing a lot in the past.  Within 1 month of our last session, he landed a full time engineering role at a top company and has relocated his family for that new opportunity.