(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

Hi, I'm Karen Bigford. I am a mechatronics engineer and I am here to tell a story. When I first reached out to Mensur, I was working as a programming and test engineer for John Deere.

I had been in that role for a long, long time and I wanted something more challenging, something that would passionate me more, but I had big issues. The first one is that I didn't know how to position myself in the market out there. And second, I was not very sure how to interview. 

Interview was very intimidating and I didn't have a clear strategy to work on this. So that's when I seek for help. Mensur helped me in three big things. 

First one, career clarity. We figured out what I really wanted to do and which roles match my strengths. The second one, we revealed my resume and my LinkedIn profile. 

So instead of only being a list of tasks, they will share a strong story to hiring managers out there. And third one, we focus on interview preparation. So we did mock interviews, behavioral frameworks, and how to communicate my technical achievements from the past in a way that resonates to all the hiring managers out there. 

So the biggest surprise about this process, it is how much confidence I gained. I went from feeling insecure to walking into interviews very well prepared, very confident, and clear about my value. After implementing these changes, everything shifted. 

I started getting more interviews and better conversations with hiring managers. I even landed in interviews with big companies such as Bridgestone, SpaceX, and Google. Companies that for being honest with you, I never imagined I will have a shot with before. 

Ultimately, I accepted a role that was a very big step forward for me. More responsibility, more growth, and of course, more challenging. That it was something that I was looking at the beginning. 

So if you are an engineer who feels stuck and wants to change something, to look for something more challenging, but is not sure how to get there, this is for you. The process is practical, structured, and it works. So I will absolutely recommend Mansoor's coaching to anyone who wants clarity, confidence, and real results.

(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)