How long have you been in the current role?
2 years
Are you currently an IC or a manager?
IC
Seems like you’ve bounced companies every few years, why?
Started at mom and pop machine shop
Moved to bigger company/bigger opportunity
2nd move was to virgin hyperloop (start up/cutting edge technology)
Then went to Beta tech in Vermont
Then to Hydrogen in Mass.
Moved companies where I couldn’t climb ladder

Anecdotal evidences that I am blocked:
Entry level to senior level engineer, then lead, but couldn’t become manager
Want to be manager – a lot of responses were “this is a startup, titles don’t matter here”, they push him to the technical path.
	

What are some specific communication examples you can share that you’d like to fix or that caused you to miss out on something?
Until recent review at Hydrogen, every other company, I was usually the most technically sound/informed in the room, a lot of past people acknowledge that he has strong technical skills, but not able to get everyone’s buy in
A few examples:
In current company – with FMEAs, a program that gets executed and carried out by a Quality Engineer working with SMEs.  I was expert on FMEA, and everyone accepted that.  I said it wasn’t the right time to implement.  Someone else in the org was very good at having discussions, but not very technical, he wanted to implement FMEAs right away.  Only input he had was German software that could help us.  VP agreed with other guy, but Asjad has to drive it.
In beta technologies – I fought very hard with all of the decision makers to give me title “director of quality” when they were searching to fill it.  8-10 people working in Quality, and I was driving all activities.  After a lot of back and forth, it didn’t happen and I left company.
Did get feedback saying that he was too young to have this role


Personal:
Kids: oldest boy (4.5 years old), girl/boy twins (2.5 years old)




Pricing: old price agreed ($975 for 3 sessions, this was a discounted price)



Communication issue highlighted and concerns:
When building report with manager or manager’s manager, I can talk about work related things very well and easily.
It is the personal things, non work related things it becomes very awkward
Wants to go through role playing exercises.


Senior Quality Engineer
Concern: Effective Communication
