Amal Alkhalil
amoula.alk@gmail.com | 515-357-8302 | http://www.linkedin.com/in/amal-alkhalil
Objective
Seeking a Summer 2025 internship at John Deere to apply programming skills, particularly in Python 
and Java, and to gain hands-on experience in a professional setting.
Education
Iowa State University | Ames, IA
Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering
GPA: 2.76 | Expected Graduation: May’27
Professional Work Experience
Co-founder - Zuhoor’s Scent | Ankeny, IA
Co-founded and managed small business | Sep’24 – Present
● Developed and refined bakhoor blends, incorporating customer feedback to perfect the 
product.
● Conducted direct sales and one-on-one marketing to gather insights for future expansion.
● Designed and managed the brand’s online presence, including website production.
● Created pricing strategies based on market research and customer preferences.
● Built the foundation for a larger-scale launch by testing and improving products through 
personal sales.
Al Izza | Niamey, Niger
Management of Transport Data Intern | March’18 – April’18
● Conducted detailed observations of the customer ticket purchasing process, pinpointing areas 
for enhancement.
● Successfully identified and rectified inconsistencies in data reporting, ensuring accuracy and 
reliability.
● Took responsibility for inspecting buses and devised strategies to enhance overall customer 
service.
Technical Projects
Cat Detection and Automated Door System
● Built a cat detection system using OpenCV and Raspberry Pi.
● Enhanced the system into an automated door using sensors and actuators.
Small Robot Development ( ongoing project )
● Designed 3D models using Shapr3D.
● Developed circuits and integrated them with a Raspberry Pi.
● Programmed functionalities using Python.
Relevant Skills
Development: C, Python
Platforms: Xcode, Cygwin, Shapr3D
Environments: MacOS, Windows, Lunix
Languages: French ( Native ), Arabic ( Native
Activities
National Society of Black Engineers ( NSBE ), Member | Jan’25 – Present
Sales Engineering Club (SEC), Member | Jan’25 – Present
Wind Energy Student Organization (WESO), Member | Jan’25 – Present